# Overview

In this lab we will start Jet using several different options.  Along the way, it will be very useful to refer to [chapter 6](https://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/jet/3.2/manual/#configuration-2) of the Jet Reference Manual.

Expecte Time: 1 hr.

# Part 1 - Starting Jet with the Provided Script

1. Make sure your Docker Compose environment is down before starting this lab. Copy `lab02.1.yml` to `docker-compose.yml`.

   ```bash
   $ docker-compose down
   $ cp lab02.1.yml docker-compose.yml 
   ```

   

2. Start a container and inspect the Jet product distribution.

   Using Docker Compose, you can run a container defined in `docker-compose.yml` without actually starting the whole environment.  Use this capability to start and log on to a container with Jet installed.  

   ```bash
   $ docker-compose run -p 5701:5701 jet-server-1 bash
   bash-4.4# pwd
   /opt/hazelcast-jet-enterprise
   ```

   Note: in the command above, "-p 5701:5701" is exposing port 5701 in the container to port 5701 on your local machine.  In other words, services listening on port 5701 in the container will be accessible as http://localhost:5701/.

   Within the container, locate and review `jet-start.sh` . You will see that  `jet-start.sh` references `common.sh` and `common.sh` references both an IMDG configuration file (`hazelcast.xml`) and a Jet configuration file (`hazelcast-jet.xml`).  Review both of these files.

   _It is important to realize that a Jet cluster sits on top of an IMDG cluster!_  The basic cluster membership and data storage functionality are provided by IMDG.  

   Hazelcast IMDG exposes a REST API which provides cluster management and health functionality. See the [IMDG Reference Manual](https://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/3.12.4/manual/html-single/index.html#using-rest-api-for-cluster-management) for details. Since this is an IMDG feature, it is configured in the IMDG configuration file.  Is the REST API enabled ?

3. Start Jet using the provided scripts.

   Go ahead and start a Jet member by running the `jet-start.sh` script with the default configuration. You should see something like the following:
   ```
   [2019-11-25 22:08:22.705] [INFO   ] com.hazelcast.core.LifecycleService - [192.168.208.2]:5701 [jet] [3.2] [192.168.208.2]:5701 is STARTED
   ```
   Now , using your browser, try to access the REST API endpoint: http://localhost:5701/hazelcast/rest/cluster. You should see output similar to the following in the console output from the Jet server.

   ```
   [2019-11-25 22:18:32.380] [WARNING] com.hazelcast.nio.tcp.TcpIpConnection - [192.168.208.2]:5701 [jet] [3.2] Connection[id=3, /192.168.208.2:5701->/192.168.208.1:55974, qualifier=null, endpoint=null, alive=false, type=NONE] closed. Reason: Exception in Connection[id=3, /192.168.208.2:5701->/192.168.208.1:55974, qualifier=null, endpoint=null, alive=true, type=NONE], thread=hz._hzInstance_1_jet.IO.thread-in-2
   java.lang.IllegalStateException: REST API is not enabled.
   ```
   Stop the jet server using ctrl-c.

4. Configure the underlying IMDG instance to expose the REST API.

   Note that `bin/common.sh` automatically adds  "-Dhazelcast.config=$JET_HOME/config/hazelcast.xml" to the JAVA_OPTS environment variable. This sets the location of hazelcast.xml and it cannot be overridden without modifying the start script.  For this lab, hazelcast.xml within the container (_not the one in the project directory_). Enable the REST API and start the Jet instance again.  Now when you access the REST api endpoint you should see something like the following.

   ```
   Members {size:1, ver:1} [
   	Member [192.168.208.2]:5701 - a6640449-391c-4a6f-9c7a-29addbece17c this
   ]
   
   ConnectionCount: 1
   AllConnectionCount: 2
   ```

5. _In another window_, start a second container and then use the REST API to verify that the members are in a cluster.

   When you start the second container, _do not_ pass "-p 5701:701" to expose port 5701.  You can also skip editing the configuration file but in a real environment you would want all of your configuration files to match.  If you access the REST endpoint again, you should see something like this:

   ```
   Members {size:2, ver:2} [
   	Member [192.168.208.2]:5701 - a6640449-391c-4a6f-9c7a-29addbece17c this
   	Member [192.168.208.3]:5701 - a2f031b7-71f0-4618-bc26-4b3f5f55679f
   ]
   
   ConnectionCount: 1
   AllConnectionCount: 3
   ```

   Congratulations!  You've started your first multi-mode Jet cluster.  

   Lets look at other ways to configure a Jet cluster.   First, use ctrl-c to stop both nodes and exit out of both shells.  Use `docker-compose ps` to verify you do not have any containers running.
   ```bash
   $ docker-compose ps
   Name   Command   State   Ports
   ------------------------------
   
   ```

   

# Part 2 - Starting Jet in Embedded or Serverless Mode

Jet members are nothing like complicated application servers.  To underscore this, the code for the main class, the one called by the `bin/jet-start.sh` script, is shown below.

```java
public final class StartServer {

    /**
     * Creates a server instance of Hazelcast Jet. If the system property
     * {@code print.port} is set, the server writes the port number of the
     * Hazelcast instance to a file named by the property.
     */
    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
        configureLogging();
        JetInstance jet = Jet.newJetInstance();
        printMemberPort(jet.getHazelcastInstance());
    }

    public static void configureLogging() throws IOException {
        InputStream input = StartServer.class.getClassLoader().getResourceAsStream("logging.properties");
        LogManager.getLogManager().readConfiguration(input);
    }

    private static void printMemberPort(HazelcastInstance hz) throws Exception {
        String printPort = System.getProperty("print.port");
        if (printPort != null) {
            PrintWriter printWriter = null;
            try {
                printWriter = new PrintWriter("ports" + File.separator + printPort, "UTF-8");
                printWriter.println(hz.getCluster().getLocalMember().getAddress().getPort());
            } finally {
                closeResource(printWriter);
            }
        }
    }
}

```



In fact, all that is really needed to start a Jet instance is:

```java
import com.hazelcast.jet.Jet;
import com.hazelcast.jet.JetInstance;

public class Server
{
    public static void main( String[] args ) {
        JetInstance jet = Jet.newJetInstance();
    }
}
```

If you start a Jet instance with no additional configuration, Jet will search for a hazelcast-jet.xml file according to the algorithm described in the [Jet Reference Manual](https://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/jet/3.2/manual/#declarative-configuration).  The underlying IMDG instance will also search for hazelcast.xml using the algorithm describe in the [IMDG Reference Manual](https://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/3.12.3/manual/html-single/index.html#checking-configuration).

However, all Hazelcast settings can be configured programmatically.  This means that, if you really need to, you can pull configuration from any source you choose.  Here is an example of programmatic configuration.

```java
import com.hazelcast.jet.Jet;
import com.hazelcast.jet.JetInstance;

public class Server
{
    public static void main( String[] args ) {
			JetConfig config = new JetConfig();
			config.getInstanceConfig().setCooperativeThreadCount(2);
			JetInstance jet = Jet.newJetInstance(config);
    }
}
```

This can be very useful for testing or if you want to write your own configuration system.  However, for production systems, declarative configuration is more common due to the ability to externalize configuration.  Let us see how this can easily be done.

The goal of this lab will be to write a simple, one line Jet server, configure it using declarative configuration, and run a 2 node cluster in our Docker environment.

1. Copy `lab02.2.yml` to `docker-compose.yml`

2. Import the project directory into your java IDE.

3. Edit `jet-server/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/training/streams/server/Server.java`.  Start a Jet instance with default configuration by calling `Jet.newJetInstance()`. 

4. Package it all into a single "uber-jar". 

   ```bash
   $ cd jet-server
   $ mvn package
   ```

5. Edit `docker-compose.yml` to run 2 instances of the new Jet server with the following configuration:

   - The class path consists of `jet-server/target/jet-server-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar`.
   - Use 'config/hazelcast.xml' as the declarative configuration file. 
     - Remember that containers can see the project folder at '/opt/project'.
     - To set the configuration file, use `-Dhazelcast.config=config-file`
   - Set the license using the `-Dhazelcast.enterprise.license.key=${JET_LICENSE_KEY}`
   - The Java class you just edited should be the main class.

6. Verify in management center that you have started a 2 node cluster.

# Part 3 - Starting Jet Using Spring

Spring Boot has become a very popular way to run serverless applications.  In this lab we will see how simple it is to do the same thing with Jet.  The changes required are rather mechanical so in this lab, you just need to review the changes and confirm that they work by the example.  

1. Review the project file: `jet-server-spring-boot/pom.xml`.  Per the Spring Boot way, the project inherits from `spring-boot-parent` and includes a `spring-boot-starter` dependency and the `spring-boot-maven` plugin.  We do not use the Maven shade plugin in this project because the Spring Boot maven plugin has its own approach for building executable jars.

2. Review the code: `jet-server-spring-boot/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/training/streams/server/ServerBean.java`.  This class contains the minimal Spring Boot bootstrapping code.  It has an `@Bean` method that provides a Jet instance.

3. Review `lab02.3.yml`.  The main change here is that, since Spring Boot builds a self-contained executable jar, we use `java -jar` to run it.  We do not need to specify the main class.  Note that the other "-Ds" are the same.  The Jet instance will still use these to find its configuration.  Of course you always have the option to do programmatic configuration in the "instance" method before returning the Jet instance.

4. Run it and verify it works by checking the logs and/or logging in to management center.

   ```bash
   $ cp lab02.3.yml docker-compose.yml
   $ docker-compose up -d
   $ docker-compose logs --follow
   $ # check out management center, then , when you are done, ctrl-c and 
   $ docker-compose down
   ```

   



